README.md, before:

# AI-Fundamentals-Class

## Traveling Salesman Route Optimization

This project implements a solution to the Traveling Salesman Problem (TSP) using real-world geographical data from Kenya. The implementation includes:

- Route optimization between multiple cities
- Real-time distance calculations using OpenRouteService API
- Interactive map visualization with animated car movement
- Detailed route analysis and distance reporting

### Features

- Calculates all possible routes between cities
- Finds the shortest route using real driving distances
- Visualizes the route on an interactive map
- Shows animated car movement along the optimized route
- Displays detailed distance information for each possible route

### Requirements

- Python 3.x
- Required packages:
  - folium
  - openrouteservice
  - matplotlib
  - numpy
  - pandas

### Usage

1. Install the required packages:
```bash
pip install folium openrouteservice matplotlib numpy pandas
```

2. Run the script:
```bash
python TravelingSalesMan_RouteOptimization.py
```

3. View the results:
- Check the console output for route analysis
- Open 'optimized_route_map.html' in a web browser to see the interactive visualization

### Current Implementation

The current implementation includes routes between:
- Nairobi
- Meru
- Nyeri
- Nandi
- Kericho

The program calculates the optimal route starting and ending in Nairobi, considering real driving distances between cities.

Commit message:

Added matplotlib visualization for route distances and improved documentation

README.md, after:

# AI-Fundamentals-Class

## Traveling Salesman Route Optimization

This project implements a solution to the Traveling Salesman Problem (TSP) using real-world geographical data from Kenya. The implementation includes:

- Route optimization between multiple cities
- Real-time distance calculations using OpenRouteService API
- Interactive map visualization with animated car movement
- Detailed route analysis and distance reporting

### Features

- Calculates all possible routes between cities
- Finds the shortest route using real driving distances
- Visualizes the route on an interactive map
- Shows animated car movement along the optimized route
- Displays detailed distance information for each possible route

### Requirements

- Python 3.x
- Required packages:
  - folium
  - openrouteservice
  - matplotlib
  - numpy
  - pandas

### Usage

1. Install the required packages:
```bash
pip install folium openrouteservice matplotlib numpy pandas
```

2. Run the script:
```bash
python TravelingSalesMan_RouteOptimization.py
```

3. View the results:
- Check the console output for route analysis
- Open 'optimized_route_map.html' in a web browser to see the interactive visualization

### Current Implementation

The current implementation includes routes between:
- Nairobi
- Meru
- Nyeri
- Nandi
- Kericho

### Algorithm Used

This project solves the Traveling Salesman Problem using a brute-force approach. It generates all possible permutations of the intermediate towns (excluding the start/end city, Nairobi) and calculates the total driving distance for each complete route (starting and ending in Nairobi). The route with the shortest total distance is then identified as the optimal route.

This method guarantees finding the absolute shortest route but becomes computationally expensive as the number of towns increases due to the factorial growth of permutations.

The program calculates the optimal route starting and ending in Nairobi, considering real driving distances between cities.
